So we get this first basic script here,
which we executed with deno.
Let's now write the same code in our app js file for node.
So I wanna store some text in a file.
How does this work?
Well first of all,
I'm setting up my text here,
and then in node's world,
I need the file system core module.
We import this with the require syntax.
So from the fs module we import the file system.
Now here by the way,
I'm getting an error that fs is a module
that's not being found.
That's of course incorrect.
And for me to fix this to temporarily
disable my deno extension.
You might not need to do this.
I need to do it here,
so I will disable it and reload the project
and thereafter this will work here.
So now I got the file system here.
Now to write to a file,
we also got a write file method here,
the writefile method now also wants
a path
which in the simplest form can just be the file name.
And then it wants the data that should be written.
One core difference compared to deno
for this specific method here,
is that the data could be just a string though,
that we can also pass in such a bytes array,
but that it also just can be a string.
So here we could have to node-message.textfile,
and we just pass in the text as a second argument.
Now one crucial difference is that write file,
like this does now not return a promise,
but that instead we pass in a callback here
to have some code that executes once this completes
or that tells us about a potential error
that could have occurred.
However you learn that you can access dot promises here
to then have the promise based versions
of those API is available,
and now write file would give you a promise.
So you can always get a modern feature like a promise here,
and to have the best possible comparison
I'm going to use that.
So I'm going to import the file system
from the promises part of the file system core module,
and therefore now here writefile gives us a promise.
Hence this function will execute
once writing to a file finished
and therefore here I can console log wrote file.
And now we can save the file and execute it.
And for executing it with node,
all we need to do is run node and then the file name.
So the command is just node and the file name
and then that's probably the most striking difference.
We now don't need to specify any permissions
we wanna assign to that execution process.
Instead by default as I mentioned before,
node scripts,
scripts executed with node by default,
have full read and write access.
They can do anything.
And that of course can be an issue
because if you're running a script
from a source which you don't know,
you have to trust that script
or analyze all the underlying source code
to make sure it's not doing anything harmful
with denon that's not the case.
There if you execute a script,
you can rely on it only being able to do the things
you do allow it to do.
Of course if you're executing
some third party script with deno,
you still might have to scenario that
this script needs write permissions to do what it does
and well you then again have to trust it
that it won't abuse those permissions.
Anyways, if we now execute this file,
you see it does finished successfully
and it writes our message to the node message text file.
So this is now the node equivalent of this code,
using some modern node feature here,
but otherwise achieving the same result.
So the key difference here really is just typeScript,
which has built into deno,
and of course that permissions thing.